README.md, before:

# Open RAN Commercial Traffic Twinning Dataset

Dataset for the paper L. Bonati, R. Shirkhani, C. Fiandrino, S. Maxenti, S. D'Oro, M. Polese, T. Melodia, "Twinning Commercial Network Traces on Experimental Open RAN Platforms," in Proceedings of ACM WiNTECH, Washington, DC, USA, November 2024.

The dataset is available at the following [link](https://repository.library.northeastern.edu/collections/neu:h989sz017). If you use it in your work, please reference the paper above.

# Experimental setup
- Number of Base Stations (BSs): 1
- Channel bandwidth: 10 MHz (50 Physical Resource Blocks (PRBs))
- Number of slices for each BS: 2
- Scheduling policies available to each slice:
    - Policy 0: Round-robin (RR)
    - Policy 2: Proportionally fair (PF)
- Number of User Equipments (UEs): 8
    - Users 1-4 demand Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) traffic
    - Users 5-8 demand Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC) traffic
- UE mobility: static

| UE ID   | UE IMSI   |   Traffic Type  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| 1 | 1010123456002 | eMBB | 
| 2 | 1010123456003 | eMBB |
| 3 | 1010123456004 | eMBB |
| 4 | 1010123456005 | eMBB | 
| 5 | 1010123456006 | URLLC |
| 6 | 1010123456007 | URLLC |
| 7 | 1010123456008| URLLC | 
| 8 | 1010123456009 | URLLC | 

- Traffic: The traffic is twinned from a public dataset of LTE network from 3 BSs located in Madrid, Spain.
    - BS1: carrier frequency at 816 MHz
    - BS2: carrier frequency at 1835 MHz
    - BS3: carrier frequency at 2650 MHz
- Number of slices for the BS: 2 (slice_id 0 for eMBB UEs and slice_id 1 for URLLC UEs)
- Slicing configurations: There are 50 PRBs in total to allocate for the two slices.

|  Slice Resouce Allocation  | Slice ID 0 (eMBB: UEs 1-4) PRBs  |  Slice ID 1 (URLLC: UEs 5-8) PRBs  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| Slicing 1 | 9 | 41 |
| Slicing 2 | 21 | 29 |
| Slicing 3 | 30 | 20 |
| Slicing 4 | 39 | 11 |
| Slicing 5 | 50 | 0 |

# Dataset stucture
- The dataset has the following structure: cluster_<#>/slicing_<#>/schedualing_<#>
    - 3 clusters (cluster_1, cluster_2, cluster_3)
    - 5 slicings (slicing_1, slicing_2, slicing_3, slicing_4, slicing_5)
    - 2 schedualings (scheduling_0, scheduling_2)
    Therefore, in total there are 30 combinations of configurations in the available experiments.
- Here is a tree example of directory structure for `RESERVATION-142634` in cluster_1, slicing_1, schedualing_0. 
```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456002_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456003_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456004_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456005_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456006_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456007_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456008_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456009_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb.log
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   └── mgen.log
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.log
│   │   │   │   │   ├── ue.log
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue_metrics.csv
...
```
- Each experiment has a directory named `RESERVATION-<experiment_id>`
- Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, and there is one directory named `ue_<IMSI>` for each UE for the files related to that UE.
- Base Station files:
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: The MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating traffic for all the UEs in the experiment. 
    - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KMPs collected at the base station for each UE.
    - `enb_metrics.csv`: downlink and uplink bitrate of the network, aggregated for all the UEs served by the base station.
    - `enb.log`: log file of the base station protocol stack.
- UE files: 
    - `mgen.log`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN.
    - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side. (?)
    - `ue.log`: log file of the UE protocol stack.

Commit message:

added the description for both datasets

README.md, after:

# Open RAN Commercial Traffic Twinning Dataset

Dataset for the paper L. Bonati, R. Shirkhani, C. Fiandrino, S. Maxenti, S. D'Oro, M. Polese, T. Melodia, "Twinning Commercial Network Traces on Experimental Open RAN Platforms," in Proceedings of ACM WiNTECH, Washington, DC, USA, November 2024.

The dataset is available at the following [link](https://repository.library.northeastern.edu/collections/neu:h989sz017). If you use it in your work, please reference the paper above.

# Experimental setup
- Number of Base Stations (BSs): 1
- Channel bandwidth: 10 MHz (50 Physical Resource Blocks (PRBs))
- Number of slices for each BS: 2
- Scheduling policies available to each slice:
    - Policy 0: Round-robin (RR)
    - Policy 2: Proportionally fair (PF)
- Number of User Equipments (UEs): 8
    - Users 1-4 demand Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) traffic
    - Users 5-8 demand Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC) traffic
- UE mobility: static

| UE ID   | UE IMSI   |   Traffic Type  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| 1 | 1010123456002 | eMBB | 
| 2 | 1010123456003 | eMBB |
| 3 | 1010123456004 | eMBB |
| 4 | 1010123456005 | eMBB | 
| 5 | 1010123456006 | URLLC |
| 6 | 1010123456007 | URLLC |
| 7 | 1010123456008| URLLC | 
| 8 | 1010123456009 | URLLC | 

- Traffic: The traffic is twinned from a public dataset of LTE network from 3 BSs located in Madrid, Spain.
    - BS1: carrier frequency at 816 MHz
    - BS2: carrier frequency at 1835 MHz
    - BS3: carrier frequency at 2650 MHz
- Number of slices for the BS: 2 (slice_id 0 for eMBB UEs and slice_id 1 for URLLC UEs)
- Slicing configurations: There are 50 PRBs in total to allocate for the two slices.

|  Slice Resouce Allocation  | Slice ID 0 (eMBB: UEs 1-4) PRBs  |  Slice ID 1 (URLLC: UEs 5-8) PRBs  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| Slicing 1 | 9 | 41 |
| Slicing 2 | 21 | 29 |
| Slicing 3 | 30 | 20 |
| Slicing 4 | 39 | 11 |
| Slicing 5 | 50 | 0 |

# Dataset stucture
- There are two zip files available for downloading, `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-kmp` which contains the metrics and the MGEN scripts, `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-log` which contains the log files. 
- The dataset has the following structure: cluster_<#>/slicing_<#>/schedualing_<#>
    - 3 clusters (cluster_1, cluster_2, cluster_3)
    - 5 slicings (slicing_1, slicing_2, slicing_3, slicing_4, slicing_5)
    - 2 schedualings (scheduling_0, scheduling_2)
    Therefore, in total there are 30 combinations of configurations in the available experiments.
- Here is a tree example of directory structure for `RESERVATION-142634` in cluster_1, slicing_1, schedualing_0 for both datasets.
```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456002_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456003_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456004_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456005_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456006_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456007_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456008_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456009_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue_metrics.csv
...
```

```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   └── enb.log
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue.log
...
```

- Each experiment has a directory named `RESERVATION-<experiment_id>`
- Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, and there is one directory named `ue_<IMSI>` for each UE for the files related to that UE.
- Base Station files:
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: The MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating traffic for all the UEs in the experiment. 
    - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KMPs collected at the base station for each UE.
    - `enb_metrics.csv`: downlink and uplink bitrate of the network, aggregated for all the UEs served by the base station.
    - `enb.log`: log file of the base station protocol stack.
- UE files: 
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgn`: The MGEN script that is used to indicate the listening port for each UE.
    - `mgen.csv`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN logs and converted to a .csv file.
    - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side.
    - `ue.log`: log file of the UE protocol stack.
